
1)
Survival Instinct:غريزة البقاء

صورة واحد بيحارب اسود
الجسم بيحس بارهاق بعد الضغط حتى لو معملش حاجة 

المشكله لما نبقي طول الوقت جسمنا بيتعامل مع اى ضغط بسيط انه تهديد لليه

physiology of stress involves a complex interaction between the nervous system, the endocrine system, and the immune system in response to a perceived threat or challenge. 
to help cope with the situation.


The Stress Response Pathway:
a-hypothalamus in the brain perceives the stressor and releases corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH).
b-pituitary gland to release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)مسوولة عن معظم الهرمونات اللى فى جسمنا تقريبا   adminstrator of your body

c-adrenal glands (located on top of the kidneys) to release cortisol (a stress hormone).
d-release epinephrine (adrenaline) and norepinephrine (noradrenaline), which help prepare the body for a quick response.(fight flight freeze fawn)

صورة واحد بيحارب اسود
الجسم بيحس بارهاق بعد الضغط حتى لو معملش حاجة 

Hormonal Changes During Stress-->
Cortisol (The Stress Hormone)glucose availability, enhancing brain function, and suppressing non-essential functions like digestion,
immune response
Increases the breakdown of proteins and fats to provide energy.
Suppresses immune function (which can be beneficial in the short term-->saves energy, but harmful if prolonged-->chronic stress).
Helps in memory consolidation.

Epinephrine (adrenaline):
Increase heart rate and blood pressure (preparing the body for "fight or flight").
Dilate the airways to increase oxygen intake.hypervrntilation
Dilate the pupils to improve vision.
Redirect blood flow to muscles, heart, and lungs (away from digestive and reproductive organs).
Increase metabolism and energy availability.
Increased muscle tension-->tremors and shivering
Increased sweating





the nervous system:
The amygdala is a small area of your brain that plays a crucial role in 
emotional processing, particularly in the formation and storage of emotional memories 
and the detection of threats. It perceives a threat and stimulates an automatic survival response
far too often in non-emergencies where a more thoughtful reaction would serve you better. 
cerebrum is a large part of the brain where you process information, consider options,-->
you have to interrupt the automatic fight, flight, freeze, or fawn amygdala response. \
We can program our brain so that the amygdala and cerebrum work together for better outcomes
صورتين نشرح عليهم
الذاكرة بتكون مشوشة وقت الستريس لان ال 
amygdala  
هى اللى بتكون متحكمة 




-awarness-Recognizing the Four Fs stress response can empower you to better manage stress and make healthier choices in challenging situations.
-out of your control
coping/defensive mechanisms with stress
If we choose fight, we can become aggressive,DEFENSIVE ARGUMENTIVE,overprotective,Pushing Back on Criticism,Jealousy

If we choose flight, we can compulsively remove ourselves physically or mentally.Avoiding Conflict , 
Social Anxietyand withdrawing,Ending Relationships

If we choose freeze-->(PARALYZING FEAR) Numbness or inability to move, we can go deer in the headlights, 
not knowing what to say or do.Public Speaking Anxiety,Test Anxiety

If we choose fawn, we can become submissive and overly accommodating to the perceived needs and desires of others.people pleasers,
Difficulty saying no,Poor Boundaries,Over-Apologizing,Minimizing Needs




types of stress:
but they differ significantly in their duration, intensity, and impact on the body and mind.


ACUTE                                  CHRONIC
High intensity:                       long-term ->ongoing, persistent challenges, threats, or pressures. 
                                      Lower intensity but sustained
                                      -Digestive issues (e.g., irritable bowel syndrome, ulcers)
                                      -Weakened immune system (increased susceptibility to infections)--> acne herpes
                                      -Insomnia or disrupted sleep patterns
                                      Psychological symptoms:
                                           Anxiety or chronic worry
                                           Depression or feelings of hopelessness
                                           Irritability or frustration
                                           Difficulty concentrating or memory issues
                                           Decreased motivation or burnout
                                           Emotional numbness or detachment

acute stress and chronic stress. Both types involve a physiological and psychological response



Admimt Stress is a natural part of our modern lives
Yes, acute stress can indeed be positive and motivating
can actually have several benefits that help a person rise to the occasion and perform at their best
Motivational Benefit: In the face of acute stress, your brain sharpens its attention, allowing you 
to process information more quickly and be more responsive to your environment.
 This focus helps you tackle challenges more effectively and stay on task.
increases Motivation and Performance (Eustress)
challenge as within your ability to handle but still demanding enough to push you beyond your comfort zone.
Improves Physical Performance
Boosts Creativity and Innovation (Moderate Stress)
